What I'm gonna challenge you to
do is we would also love to send
a post request to the server that
turns that LED on and off as well.
And once we have that in place, then
we can go from browser all the Arduino,
we can go from Arduino, or
we can go from node to browser.
I think WebSockets will
get us all the way there.
But we'll kinda take a look
at that full lifecycle.
And from there, we can build on it with
a bunch of really cool options as well.
Awesome, yes.
>> I just have a quick question.
>> Yes.
>> And maybe this is a bigger one now.
I noticed in the Arduino IDE,
it tells you how much memory you're using.
And now that we're starting to
bring in JavaScript libraries,
is there a way to track that here?
Or are we gonna run out of memory ever?
>> You're not gonna run out of memory
because right now without, on the Arduino,
the host computer is your laptop.
So I mean, you're gonna run out of
memory but depending on the MacBook,
somewhere between 16 and 120gb of memory.
So we're not at this moment with this
board bound by the memory constraints.
For something like a Raspberry Pi,
even these days on a modern Raspberry Pi,
they're pretty impressive,
like $30 computers, right?
And so it depends is the real answer.
For the purposes of the Arduino, we are so
limited that we are using a host computer,
right?
So, no because it's very much yes [LAUGH],
We are so constricted that we're
now constricted basically.
Yeah, for a lot of these cases
do need to be plugged in.
There are some that you might even choose,
could we read system information and
print it to an LCD screen?
We could, right?
But generally speaking, that would become
more constrained when you have one of
the boards that host
a full node environment.
All right, so the initial ask was that we
can get an LED blinking along with it.
Now theoretically, we'll move to another
example in a second what we do with a post
request and stuff along those lines.
But just as a sanity check, let's do it
along, like when a get requests comes,
let's toggle the light and
then we'll kind of build on it from there.
So if we kinda go ahead.
I took away the LED that I have.
You might still have it, but
I'm just gonna make it again.
And I believe mine's on 11 still.
So I've got that LED.
And I'm gonna start with
the simplest possible thing,
which is to say led.toggle,
when we get a request in.
Let's see how that goes for me.
So then I will, All right, server's up.
And so now, regardless of whether or
not the button is pressed,
when I visit the site,
my LED should go on or off.
So now I've got from
the outside world in there.
And one of the optional things
to install was like ngrok so
you could expose this computer to
the Internet if you wanted to.
And now I could theoretically control
this LED from my mobile phone.
I mean, anyone could by visiting or not.
And we've got this idea of now from
the browser all the way to the board.
We can turn that on and off.
We can modify this a little bit with a
post request, but just so that no one has
to remember the syntax for curl, I have
various different boiler plates set up.
There is one called Web with LED,
I believe,
Web to LED that we'll
check out in a second.
I just wanna show you a totally optional
optimization that you can do if you want.
If you do not want to do this,
you do not have to.
I will choose to do it, because that's
the way I want to live my life,
you don't have to.
Which is, for the most part, which I
thought we do need to wait for the board
to be ready before we interact with
the board, which makes total sense, right?
Which means that generally speaking,
other than instantiating the board and
maybe some other stuff, almost everything
has to be inside this closure, right?
I am somewhat lazy and
don't wanna live like that.
So, an option, if you look over here,
I have this little helper file in
Utilities called create-board.
No, that is far too far away.
There it is,
where I simply wrap this in a promise.
Because I think in node,
what is it, 18 and later,
you have top level async await, right?
So by wrapping in a promise that
resolves when the board is ready,
I can do this instead,
just at a top level and
the rest of the code will
execute once the board is ready.
You can use the board on ready if that's
simpler, it makes more sense to you.
Especially cuz I have a very
increased font size right now,
it allows me to kinda have
better real estate there.
But yeah, I just made a quick abstraction
over that that I can create the board and
then pause the execution until it's ready
and then do everything kinda top level.
So I'll probably be using that from
this point forward, but like I said,
you do not have to, and if I did,
if I needed the board object itself,
that would work as well.
It returns the board in this
case once it's ready and
it waits for it, so I don't have to
set up that event listener every time.
If that's a helpful abstraction for
you, great.
If you don't wanna use it, that's totally
fine, too, but just kind of full context.
And you're like, yeah, there might be
a bunch of other abstractions that you
choose to make as well, but that is kinda
the only one that I went for at this time.
So I'm gonna navigate,
I've got just, and again,
you could write this stuff by hand,
to save the parts that are tedious for us.
I've got this web-to-led, and we'll
just take a tour of the code real quick.
The server is basically the same
that we had before, right?
I can pull in that, Johnny-Five.
The only difference is this one starts out
vite, to actually build some client-side
assets too, so
it's not just the raw stuff on the page.
But it's the same basic setup that we
had in the last example, and index.html,
cuz nobody tuned in to this Nodesbots
course to live watch me write HTML.
I mean, maybe you did.
I don't wanna speak for you.
So I can kinda navigate
into that one as well.
And it'd be cool to actually show
just the flow with an Ajax page, for
instance, right, of how would this work.
And then, so
basically the next few examples are,
let's look at how do we trigger
what we just saw with AJAX or
net request or fetch request,
post request, what have you.
And then we'll look at the WebSockets, and
then I think things really kinda kick into
high gear, cuz now we've got real-time
two-way communication trigger in either
direction, I think it's where
things start to get fun.
So, with that, let's dig into it.
So if I go, I'm gonna just navigate
out of that button-with-webserver and
into web-to-led.
Sweet, and I will, Nodeindex.js,
I'll just start that up real quick so
you can see that now I've got
something running at localhost.
The server's running on 3000.
The clients assets are on 5173,
cuz that's the number that Vite shows.
And so I have this button,
ideally, clicking this button,
I would like to make turn on that
switch one way or the other.
So we get this working pretty quickly.
It's an extension of what we just saw, but
it kinda helps close the loop
a little bit as well.
So if we look at client.js,
there's nothing in there, so
we kind of navigate as we want.
I'm gonna do the server side first because
otherwise it's just gonna blow up.
So I'll kinda take you
through some of the things.
I have that create-boards.
You can kinda see me
implement that this time.
We'll put up the post request that ideally
should toggle the light
switch in either direction.
Great, so
I can say const board = createBoard
with the repl, we'll turn that off again.
I don't need the board on ready cuz,
we gotta await it, right?
So wait for the board to be ready.
And when that's done, we'll do, let's get
ourselves an LED, this one is still on 11.
So we'll stick with that.
And then I don't need the button just yet.
We could do something fun there.
But now we can set up a post
request instead, right?
And we'll say post and
we'll say api/light, [INAUDIBLE] do that.
And when that comes in,
very similar to what I had before.
I'm just gonna do led.toggle, yeah, sure.
We can set up that post request,
and then in client.js,
we've got that light switch, so we'll say,
lightSwitch, addEventListener for a click.
And then I have all posters is, any y'all
ever tried to write a post, fetch is
super easy for getting, you ever tried
to write a post request without Axios or
something like that,
cuz you don't have too many libraries.
So I did that exactly once and
I don't ever wanna write it again.
So all posts does is it sends a post fetch
request without me having to write all of
this cuz I'm very lazy again.
Live coding and live wiring is hard
enough, I'm at least gonna give
myself [LAUGH] a few niceties to make
my life just a little bit easier there.
So that's what post is,
it's nothing special,
it's simply regular old fetch,
either ready to accept JSON or not.
So we'll do that post('/api/light').
I'm trying to think.
Let's make this async just so
we can see, we get better,
So we'll kinda do that as well.
And so now I've got that kind of
full connection we're talking about.
I have a DOM element.
I have an event listener,
should verify that this works before
I get too confident about it.
But let's talk about my intentions.
And then we'll see if my execution
matches my intentions, right?
So I've got a light switch.
When it clicked, we're gonna send
that post request to api/ light,
which should go back to the server and
toggle our LED on and off, right,
and thus completing the circle as well.
All right, so just sending a post request,
well console.log the response as well.
So let's try that out,
I do need to restart the server.
You could try to get fancy with
Nodemon and stuff along those lines,
but between the client side server and
the node server,
and the Arduino board and memory leaks,
I decided that wasn't worth it for me.
Tailwind hates me for some reason right
now, but I'll fight with that later.
It works, and
I'll open the console up as well.
So my light is going on and off from
the web, through node, to my board.
It's oddly satisfying.
I've been doing this for a very long time,
and I don't get a lot of that warm and
fuzzies of the very first time that
I made something change on a page.
And for some reason, making this tiny
little three-cent light go on and
off is mildly rewarding,
[LAUGH] in a deep and satisfying way.
We haven't really had
to adjust our circuit.
Now, again, we could theoretically
do other stuff with the button.
One example that, I don't think
we will play with a little, but
I left some fun little
extensions in there.
There is one where you could theoretically
wire up three of these buttons and
have rock-paper-scissor in there, right?
So you hit a button and then there's
a little algorithm that randomly picks one
and tells you if you won or lost.
Listen, I pay attention during
all of my meetings at work, and
there's no way that I spend any time
quietly playing rock paper scissor
over on my other monitor while nodding,
that never happened.
So, here's a bunch of little
kinda stuff in there.